# Symbolic Discovery of Stochastic Differential Equations with Genetic Programming 

In this repository, you can find the source code and data files used for the paper "Symbolic Discovery of Stochastic Differential Equations with Genetic Programming".
In this paper, we used genetic programming (GP) to evolve the structure of the deterministic and stochastic components in stochastic differential equations (SDE). The approach demonstrates accurate recovery of governing equations, scales well to higher dimensional problems and extends to stochastic partial differential equations (SPDE).

## Build
To use the code, you can clone the repository and create the environment by running:
```
conda env create -f environment.yml
conda activate gpsde_env
```
## Running experiments
All code used for our paper is located in `src/`. All data generated by our experiments is stored in subfolders in `data/`. `src/generate_plots_ipynb` provides the code for recreating the figures in the paper.
To evaluate a method on an environment, run `python src/METHOD/run.py ENVIRONMENT`. The methods include KM-SR, GP-ODE and GP-SDE. The environments are:

|Environment|Extra variable|
|---|---|
|Double well| Noise term: "additive", "linear", "nonlinear" |
|Van der Pol Oscillator| - |
|Rössler Attractor| - | 
|Lorenz96 system | Number of variables: 5, 10, 20 |
|Lotka-Volterra | Sampling rate: 0.02, 0.2, 0.5 |

Some experiments have an optional variable that could be given to evaluate the method. Furthermore, GP-ODE and GP-SDE can also be extended with multi-step integration. To evaluate these on the Lotka-Volterra, run `python src/METHOD/run_MS.py DELTA_T`. To evaluate GP-SDE on SPDEs, run `python src/METHOD/run_SPDE_1D.py` (Fisher-KPP equation) and `python src/GP-SDE/run_SPDE_2D.py` (two dimensional heat transfer). Finally, the runtime of any method can be measured using `python src/METHOD/run.py NVAR` given a number of variables.

<!-- ## Citation
If you make use of this code in your research paper, please cite:
```
@article{de2024discovering,
  title={Discovering Dynamic Symbolic Policies with Genetic Programming},
  author={de Vries, Sigur and Keemink, Sander and van Gerven, Marcel},
  journal={arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.02765},
  year={2024}
}
``` -->
